1. Defne a structure to store the name, an array
marks[] which stores the marks of three different
subjects, and a character grade. Write a program
to display the details of the student whose name
is entered by the user.
Note: Data should be stored in Heap memory.

2. Declare a structure that represents the following hierarchical information.
(a) LoginId
(b) Roll Number
(c) Name
(i) First name
(ii) Middle Name
(iii) Last Name
(d) Sex
(e) Date of Birth
(i) Day
(ii) Month
(iii) Year
(f) Marks
(i) English
(ii) Mathematics
(iii) Computer Science
Use the structure defnition as mentioned above to make an array of students.
Create nested structures for Name, Date of Birth and Marks
Create a menu driven program as follows:-
1. Add Student Details
2. View All Students Details.
3. View Students who have secured less than given percentage of the aggregate.
eg. View Students who have secured less than 40% of the aggregate.
4. View Student details based on given Date of Birth

3. Modify Question 2 to print each student’s averagemarks and the class average
(that includes average of all the student’s marks).

4. Make an array of students as illustrated in Question 2and write a program to
display the details of the student with the given Rollno.

5. Write a program to fnd smallest of three distances using structures.
Create a structure Distance, with two data members as follows:-
struct distance
{ int km;
int meter;
};
Create three variables of struct distance, fill their data memebers from user input through keyboard at
runtime.
Find and print the smallest distance among given three distances.

6. Write a program to calculate the distance between
the given points (6,3) and (2,2). Use the structure to store the x and y coordinates of Point as follows:-
strcut point
{ int x;
int y;
};

7. Write a program to read and display the information
about all the employees in a department.
Edit the details of the ith employee and redisplay the information.
Create and use the appropriate structure to store, edit and print the details.

8. Write a program to add and subtract height 6'2" and 5'4".
Use the structe height to store the data as follows:-
struct height
{ int feet;
int inch;
};

9. Write a program to add and subtract 10hrs 20mins 50sec and 5hrs 30min 40sec
with the help of folloing structure for data storage:-
struct duration
{ int hrs;
int min;
int sec;
};

10. Write a program using structure to check if the
date enterd by user belongs to leap year or not.
Use the following data to store the date as follows:-
struct date
{ int day;
int month;
int year;
};

11. Write a program using pointer to structure to
initialize the members of an employee structure.
Use functions to print the employee’s information.

12. Write a program to create a structure with the
information given below. Then, read and print the
data.
Employee[10]
(a) Emp_Id
(b) Name
(i) First Name
(ii) Middle Name
(iii) Last Name
(c) Address

(i) Area
(ii) City
(iii) State
(d) Age
(e) Salary
(f) Designation

13. Defne a structure date containing three integers—
day, month, and year. Write a program using
functions to read data, to validate the date entered
by the user and then print the date on the screen.
For example, if you enter 29,2,2010 then that is an
invalid date as 2010 is not a leap year. Similarly
31,6,2007 is invalid as June does not have 31 days.

14. Using the structure definition of the above
program, write a function to increment the date.
Make sure that the incremented date is a valid
date.

15. Modify the above program to add a specific
number of days to the given date.

16. Write a program to defne a structure vector.
Then write functions to read data, print data, add two
vectors and scale the members of a vector by a
factor of 10.

17. Write a program to defne a structure for a hotel
that has members— name, address, grade, number
of rooms, and room charges. Write a function to
print the names of hotels in a particular grade. Also
write a function to print names of hotels that have
room charges less than the specifed value.
Program should be menu driven.

18. Write a program to defne a union and a structure
both having exactly the same members. Using
the sizeof operator, print the size of structure
variable as well as union variable and observe the result.

19. Declare a structure time that has three felds—hr,
min, sec. Create two variables start_time and
end_time. Input their values from the user.
If difference between start_time and end_time is more than 2 hrs 30 minutes 45 seconds,
then display "Time to Relax" on the screen, else display "Hurry up Please....".

20. Declare a structure fraction that has two felds—
numerator and denominator.

struct fraction
{ int numerator;
int denominator;
}
Create two variables of the above structure
and compare them using function. Return 0 if the
two fractions are equal, –1 if the frst fraction is
less than the second and 1 otherwise. You may
convert a fraction into a foating point number
for your convenience.

21. Declare a structure POINT. Input the coordinates
of a point variable and determine the quadrant in
which it lies. The following table can be used to
determine the quadrant:-
----------------------------------
Quadrant X Y
----------------------------------
1 Positive Positive
2 Negative Positive
3 Negative Negative
4 Positive Negative
----------------------------------

22. Write a program to calculate the area of one
of the geometric fgures—circle, rectangle or a
triangle. Write a function to calculate the area.
The function must receive one parameter which
is a structure that contains the type of fgure and
the size of the components needed to calculate the
area must be a part of a union. Note that a circle
requires just one component, rectangle requires
two components and a triangle requires the size
of three components to calculate the area